## [Entity Component System](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HkG8ZdhoXhs&list=PLtrSb4XxIVbp8AKuEAlwNXDxr99e3woGE&index=12)
### Standard Approach (OOP)
Large Hierarchy for objects and continue throughout through inheritances. Chunky and clunky 
for video games.
### Component Pattern (Modern)
Have a Game Object with a list of components (Contains Transform and name and other attribute). 
Then you give it a Component, that can be anything with logic in each part. This is wide hierarchy
rather than a deep down hierarchy; quicker and faster. (3 - 4 at Max usually) Problem is that
this system has an issue called cache Misses.

**Cache Miss**  
Components scatter throughout memories, and having to jump from A to B to even Z (Performance issue).
CPU loads all the necessary information, but since everything is not stored orderly, you might perform long
jumps, resulting in degrading in performance.

### Data Oriented Design
Break up components into logical groups; GameObjects, BoxColliders, RenderComponent. This is
to make everything next to one another, so we don't have to jump that much, and we reduce cache misses.

### Entity Component System (ECS) [Read More]
Instead of having just an Entity or Component, you can have a System Components that you 
are controlling, grabbing whatever is important; storing the important stuff next to one another.
(Java Sucks; no control since there's Entity Component System)

Still a Problem; Communication between Components is needed through GameObject.

**Gabe's Solution**
- Is Scene Running? (No)
- Create all GameObject -> Through init()
  - Add all components
- Start all the Components -> Start()
  - Start Component
- Run Scene

- Is Scene Running? (Yes)
- Create GameObject
  - Add all Components
- Add GameObject to Scene
  - Start GameObject
- (Skip to (Start all the Components))



## Resource
- [Medium - ECS](https://medium.com/ingeniouslysimple/entities-components-and-systems-89c31464240d)
- [Game Programming Patterns](http://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/component.html)